Hello Everyone, my name is Sher Chowdhury and welcome to my course Kubernetes by example

first of all a little bit about me, I'm based in the UK and I've been working in IT for about 15 years, 
in that time I've worked for big government departments as well as in the private sector. 

In 2019 I passed the Kubernetes exam and I'm now a certified kubernetes administrator. 

In my spare time I like to write articles for my website, codingbee.net. 


Ok enough about me let's now move on to the course itself this course takes a learn by doing approach so that 
you get comfortable using Kubernetes as quick as possible. 

At its core kubernetes is all about using the kubectl command along with yaml files that you feed into kubectl.
 that's why this course is primarily focused on learning how to write these Kubernetes yml files and then applying them using kubectl
 
That way you'll learn more effectively by seeing Kubernetes in action and following along.
  
  
in case you're interested you can get certified by taking the certified kubernetes administrator exam like me.  The exam is
a hands-on exam where you perform tasks on a real Kubernetes environment. So since this course takes a hands-on approach it 
makes it a really good course to help prepare for the exam. This course doesn't cover the whole exam syllabus, 
however the appendix section at the end of this course gives a mapping. 
   
   
During the exam you're allowed to access a couple of websites one of them is official kubernetes website, but only web pages 
under the docs section. 
   
The other being the official Kubernetes github project, and all the git repo under it. 

That's why in this course we'll regularly refer to these sources so that you get familiarized 
with their content, and know your way around them. 


In this course you will learn and create...

how to run containers by creating pods,
how to set up networking for the pods by creating services
how to create a number of identical pods using replicasets
how to replace existing pods with newer pods using deployments
how to make pods externally accessible by setting up ingress and creating ingress rules
How to create namespaces and organise your kubernetes objectes into them. 


Kubernetes is a big software and there are some topics that I haven't included in this course, 
simply because these topics are so big that they need to be a course in their own right. They include 











