
In this video we're going to create our first cube cluster using minikube
First let's check minikube's status.

Here we can see that we don't have a kube cluster running at the moment. 



So let's create a new kube cluster by running minikube start. This can take a few minutes to complete so we'll fast forward this to save you from waiting. 


Ok thats done now minikube has provided a summary of all the tasks it performed as part of the cluster build process. There's quite a lot of interesting info here. Here it shows that minikube downloaded an image file and used that image file to create a VM using Virtualbox. This vm has this amount of cpu, ram and disk space allocated to it. You can confirm that's the case by taking a look in virtualbox, notice that a VM with the name minikube now exists with the spec we saw earlier.  


Moving on, It shows what IP address the VM has been assigned with. It also shows that the kubecluster is using docker as it's container run time engine.  




 
now let's check mini kube status again. Here it says that our local kubectl client has been configured to point this cluster.


Let's confirm that's the case by now actually trying to use kubectl. First I'll try getting the cluster-info. So far so good. This ip address matches up with the minikube vm's ip address (minikube ip)


Now let's perform a component status health check. 

Now let's get a list of all the nodes in our kube cluster.

```
kubectl get nodes
```

We can get more info by setting the output flag as wide. 

```
kubectl get nodes -o wide
```

here we can only see one node listed, which is expected since minikube only builds single node kube clusters. 

Ok, let's clear the screen now. 





everything looks good here and now let's check how many nodes make up our cute cluster let me make that put a bit smaller so that everything is easier to read okay see that I can cluster is made up of a long and that's expected because mini cube only build single node key clusters okay I'll just quickly cleared screen when you're not using your mini key provisions to plaster finishes shut it down and you can do that by running mini cube stopAlternatively if you want to delete your keep restaurant to your humidity legally downloaded out right now because I'm still using it another CD can do is that we can necessary into your mini QPRAnd that you can switch to the rotator okay next it out now finally what why favourite calls as it will call keeping it is dashboard it's it graphical web interface that lets you a lot of the things that tipsy ~ the Using this dashboard in this course because it will be focusing on using cutesy TL instead I feel free to experiment here as you go through the courts okay that's it for this video see you in the next one